# Summary
Meshless/meshfree methods are cutting-edge numerical methods for numerical modeling, which unlike other mesh-based algorithms, do not require an structured grid/elements in the domain. These methods can work with scatterd nodes in the domain, however, the nature of the modeling problem often suggests a certain type of node-layout to get the most efficient modeling results. Many real-world applications (like weather forecasting, tsunami modeling, and geophysical imaging, computational mechanics) require to generate a large number of nodes in a significantly large arbitrary domain. The literature in this context is up-and-coming and some recent progress include: \citep{fornberg2015fast,michaels2017node,shankar2018robust,vlasiuk2017fast,zamolo2018two}. 

``NodeLab`` is a MATLAB-based library for unstructured node-generation and adaptive refinement for meshfree modeling in arbitrary domains. The core-algorithm behind this package is the `node-placing` algorithm proposed by [Fornberg2015] because of its simplicity, computational speed and a good quality of the distribution. 


\citet{fornberg2015fast}'s  approach is similar to advancing front methods and has been reported to have advantages like computational speed, simple algorithms, and good quality of distribution. In this paper, we use this \emph{node-placing} algorithm to generate the initial nodes within the bounding box of the domain, which is a rectangular box outside the range of the domain. To generate nodes in arbitrary domains, we need explicit information about the boundary for example a polygon in 2D, a surface in 3D, or more general parameterized boundaries. An crucial decision is how to represent the geometry of the domain. We represent the domain by using a signed distance field (SDF), negative inside the domain.

 
